[pull] primary from flybywiresim:primary (#472)
Valastiri/fbw-userguide: docs/pilots-corner/advanced-guides/flight-guidance/tcas.md

{==

The initial implementation of TCAS features the AP/FD TCAS function and is available in the Development version.

Our TCAS supports online network traffic services (Vatsim / IVAO).

==}

## Overview

Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) is a system available on Airbus aircraft that help reduce airborne collisions and risks. Numerous improvements have been made to this system over the years that enhances the pilot interface and decreases non-optimum pilot handling of advisories from TCAS. The FlyByWire A32NX uses the AP/FD TCAS mode function developed by Airbus.

There are two typical procedures pilots will encounter when TCAS detects an intruder in the flight path of the aircraft.

- Traffic Advisory (TA)
- Resolution Advisory (RA)

The TCAS panel can be found on the lower pedestal to the right of the throttle quadrant.

> 

Reviewer: I'll pull this from the pilot briefing pages

For more information on how ensure TCAS is active for your flight and the corresponding controls please see the [ATC TCAS PANEL](../../a32nx-briefing/flight-deck/pedestal/atc-tcas.md) page.

## AP/FD TCAS

!!! warning "Manual Flight Assumptions"
    The operating flight crew should always be able to take command of hte aircraft manually by disconnecting the autopilot and flight directors to respond to a TCAS RA by flying the verticial speed out of the red zone in the vertical speed indicator.

AP/FD TCAS includes vertical guidance as part of the Auto Flight System (AFS) to support pilots during a TCAS RA. It provides control of the vertical speed via the AFS which is specifically tailored to each target that generated an RA. 

> Essentially this feature allows the flight crew to resolve TCAS RAs using the autopilot and flight directors engaged. It is also entirely possible to complete a TCAS RA maneuver manually by using the flight director guidance with the autopilot switched off as well. The major benefit of this system is to provide optimal maneuvers when a conflict arises.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Essentially this feature allows the flight crew to resolve TCAS RAs using the autopilot. It is also entirely possible to complete a TCAS RA maneuver manually by using the flight director guidance with the autopilot switched off as well. The major benefit of this system is to provide optimal maneuvers when a conflict arises.
```

!!! info "AP/FD TCAS Conditions"
    There are conditions that happen when a TCAS RA is triggered causing the AP/FD TCAS mode to do the following:

    === "AP + FD Engaged"
        Any vertical mode will revert to `TCAS` in the FMA and the autopilot will fly the TCAS maneuver

    === "AP Disengaged / FD Engaged"
        TCAS mode will be engaged and supercede the flight directory guidance. Flight crews should ensure they are centered on the pitch bar and bring the vertical speed of the aircraft into the green zone indicated on the vertical speed indicator on the PFD.

    === "AP + FD Disengaged"
        The FD bars will appear automatically. TCAS mode will be engaged and provide guidance and flight crews should perform actions as stated in above.

### Traffic Advisory

This advisory is generated when TCAS detects an intruder along the current flight path it would consider a potential threat. Flight crews will receive multiple cues from TCAS that identifies a TA. No specific action is mandatory during a TA but the flight crew should remain vigilant of intruders and anticipate a potential RA. 

> - Visual amber cues on the navigation display (ND providing information about the potential threat

Reviewer 2: There 4 icons, right? White outline, white, amber abd red.

- "*Traffic, Traffic*" aural warning

[**Images of different TA icons on ND Here**]

Once a TA is triggered the AP/FD TCAS will arm itself to notify the crew (alongside other visual cues noted above). This ensures that if the intruder would turn into a threat that triggers an RA the system is ready.

### Resolution Advisory

> When a traffic advisory becomes a collision threat an RA is generated. AP/FD TCAS shines in this regard allowing for fully automated flight in the case of an RA. Pilots will now have additional information provided to them on the performance display (PFD) and navigation display depending on what actions the flight crew need to perform to clear the conflict.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a traffic advisory becomes a collision threat an RA is generated. AP/FD TCAS shines in this regard allowing for fully automated flight in the case of an RA. Pilots will now have additional information provided to them on the primary flight display (PFD) and navigation display (ND) depending on what actions the flight crew needs to perform to clear the conflict. 
```

[**Images of different RA icons on ND Here**]

There are generally two types of behaviors associated with an RA - preventative and corrective

#### Preventative

This behavior starts with the vertical speed in the <span style=color:green>green zone</span> of the VSI. It requires the flight crew or commands the autopilot to maintain the current vertical speed and is coupled with an audible alert such as "Monitor V/S". This would help increase the safety margin before any further measures would need to be taken and allow for safe capture of a selected flight level clear of any conflicts. The following conditions will apply:

- TCAS will maintain a safe V/S target
- Longitudinal modes previously armed will automatically be disarmed except ALT^*^
- In the situation that conditions for altitude capture are met a preventative RA will allow for safe capture of the targeted altitude.
    - This prevents the aircraft from exceeding a commanded altitude in the FCU
- The audible alert "Adjust V/S" will safely maintain a vertical speed when attempting to level-off
- To ensure a safe speed during any maneuvers A/THR will engage SPEED/MACH

> #### Corrective

Reviewer 2: This might need some rephrasing. I did not understand everything :D

Reviewer: i'm assuming it's the audible alert bullet point I've made changes to this

- TCAS will engage and modify vertical guidance to avoid conflict. It will target the zone mentioned above.
- Targets a V/S of 200ft/min inside the green band on the VSI.
- Longitudinal modes previously armed will automatically be disarmed except ALT^*^
    - This prevents the aircraft from exceeding a commanded altitude / prevent excursions
    - A V/S of 0 ft/min is always within the safe zone for a corrective RA which allows for TCAS to capture a targeted flight level if capture conditions are met
- To ensure a safe speed during any maneuvers A/THR will engage SPEED/MACH

---

## External Resources

Airbus' Safety First publication has great resources further explaining their systems in-depth with supporting graphics and statistics. We've provided a link below to a great article detailing TCAS Alert Prevention (TCAP) and the AP/FD TCAS function.

> [Safe Handing of TCAS Alerts](https://safetyfirst.airbus.com/safe-handling-of-tcas-alerts/){.md-button primary}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Safe Handing of TCAS Alerts](https://safetyfirst.airbus.com/safe-handling-of-tcas-alerts/){.md-button primary target=new}
```

{==

The initial implementation of TCAS features the AP/FD TCAS function and is available in the Development version.

> Our TCAS supports online network traffic services (Vatsim / IVAO) and the live traffic feature in MSFS.

Reviewer 3: What does this not support? AI traffic? If so, let's call it out.

Reviewer 3: I see now you do it at the end of the document. Maybe that's good enough then? I'm not quite clear on what this sentence tries to do here though. If it's to warn people of cases where it might work, the negative case might be more helpful.

Reviewer: Changed the wording to link to the section instead.

==}

## Overview

> The Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) is a system available on Airbus aircraft that helps to reduce the risk of airborne collisions. Numerous improvements have been made to this system over the years that enhance the pilot interface and decrease non-optimal pilot handling of advisories from TCAS. The FlyByWire A32NX uses the AP/FD TCAS mode function developed by Airbus.

Reviewer 3: Not exclusive to Airbus. It's mandatory on all passenger airliners in the major western countries.

Reviewer 4: Agree with this, the Airbus part makes it sound exclusive whereas it’s been mandatory across airliners for years?

- [Traffic Advisory (TA)](#traffic-advisory): Potential threats to monitor
- [Resolution Advisory (RA)](#resolution-advisory): Collision threats that require intervention

The TCAS panel can be found on the lower pedestal to the right of the throttle quadrant.

![ATC-TCAS Panel](../../assets/a32nx-briefing/pedestal/ATC-TCAS.jpg "ATC-TCAS Panel")

For more information on how to ensure TCAS is active for your flight and the corresponding controls please see the [ATC TCAS PANEL](../../a32nx-briefing/flight-deck/pedestal/atc-tcas.md) page.

## AP/FD TCAS

!!! warning "Manual Flight Assumptions"
    The operating flight crew should always be able to take command of the aircraft manually by disconnecting the autopilot and flight directors to respond to a TCAS RA by flying the aircraft at a vertical speed outside the red zone in the vertical speed indicator.

AP/FD TCAS includes vertical guidance as part of the Auto Flight System (AFS) to support pilots during a TCAS RA. It provides control of the vertical speed via the AFS which is specifically tailored to each target that generated an RA. 

> Essentially this feature allows the flight crew to resolve TCAS RAs using the autopilot. It is also entirely possible to complete a TCAS RA maneuver manually by using the flight director guidance with the autopilot switched off as well. The major benefit of this system is to provide optimal maneuvers when a conflict arises.

Reviewer 3: I think structurally this part (both the warning and the AP/FD integration) should come later. Let's first explain what a TA and an RA even is, before we're like "WARNING PILOTS MUST ALWAYS BE ABLE TO MANUALLY FLY TCAS RAs"

### Traffic Advisory

This advisory is generated when TCAS detects an intruder along the current flight path it would consider a potential threat. Flight crews will receive multiple cues from TCAS that identifies a TA. No specific action is mandatory during a TA but the flight crew should remain vigilant of intruders and anticipate a potential RA. 

- Visual amber cues on the navigation display (ND providing information about the potential threat

> - "*Traffic, Traffic*" aural warning

Reviewer 3: The "Traffic, Traffic" callout is clearly the most noticeable and most distinctive part of a TA. I would put it first.

> 

Reviewer 3: Let's add a paragraph here detailing the outcome, something like this:

> The TA will remain active for as long as the threat remains. A TA will always result in one of two things:
> - Once the predicted flight paths of the aircraft or the aircraft themselves are no longer in proximity, TCAS will issue a "Clear of Conflict"
> - If the threat increases, because the aircraft are predicted to approach too close to each other, TCAS will upgrade the Traffic Advisory to a Resolution Advisory.

Reviewer: I'm adding this almost verbatim as it's already well written :)

> Once a TA is triggered the AP/FD TCAS will arm itself to notify the crew (alongside other visual cues noted above). This ensures that if the intruder would turn into a threat that would trigger an RA the system is ready to act.

Reviewer 3: Let's be more specific about all the actions that should be done. You should chat to real pilots about this, but:

- The pilot monitoring should check the ND for the location of the threatening traffic. It may be necessary to increase the zoom level of the ND to below 60nm (double-check this number)
- The pilot monitoring should attempt to establish visual contact with the nearby aircraft, if possible, to assess the flight path visually
- The pilot should check the FMA to check whether AP/FD TCAS is armed. If not, they must be ready to swiftly disengage the autopilot and manually follow the TCAS orders, once the TA upgrades to a Resolution Advisory

Reviewer: Added two entirely new sections here based on external resources. Will have this verified.

### Resolution Advisory

> When a traffic advisory becomes a collision threat an RA is generated. AP/FD TCAS shines in this regard allowing for fully automated flight in the case of an RA. Pilots will now have additional information provided to them on the primary flight display (PFD) and navigation display (ND) depending on what actions the flight crew needs to perform to clear the conflict.

Reviewer 3: Let's first talk about what even a Resolution Advisory is, before talking about how great AP/FD TCAS is. We can do that by adding a second sentence with something like this: "A RA requires the pilot to immediately follow the commanded action by TCAS. RAs always have priority over ATC commands, especially when they conflict with ATC."

Reviewer: Added a little more here based on FCTM

{==

> The initial implementation of TCAS features the AP/FD TCAS function and is available in the Development version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The TCAS system is not available in the Stable version at this time.
```

For a list of compatible networks and known issues - [see here](#compatibilities-and-known-issues).

==}

## Overview

The Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) is a system available on aircraft that helps to reduce the risk of airborne collisions. In general commercial airliners operating an IFR flight require TCAS as mandated by various regulatory bodies such as FAA, ICAO, or EASA. 

Numerous improvements have been made to this system over the years that enhance the pilot interface and decrease non-optimal pilot handling of advisories from TCAS. The FlyByWire A32NX uses the AP/FD TCAS mode function developed by Airbus.

There are two types of advisories pilots will encounter when TCAS detects an intruder in the flight path of the aircraft.

- [Traffic Advisory (TA)](#traffic-advisory): Potential threats to monitor
- [Resolution Advisory (RA)](#resolution-advisory): Collision threats that require intervention

The TCAS panel can be found on the lower pedestal to the right of the throttle quadrant.

![ATC-TCAS Panel](../../assets/a32nx-briefing/pedestal/ATC-TCAS.jpg "ATC-TCAS Panel")

> For more information on how to ensure TCAS is active for your flight and the corresponding controls please see the [ATC TCAS PANEL](../../a32nx-briefing/flight-deck/pedestal/atc-tcas.md) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that the ATC system is on `AUTO` or `ON` and the `ALT RPTG` knob is in position `ON`. The TCAS mode switch should be in position `TA/RA` when entering the runway for takeoff. 

For more information on how to ensure TCAS is active for your flight and the corresponding controls please see the [ATC TCAS PANEL](../../a32nx-briefing/flight-deck/pedestal/atc-tcas.md) page.
```

    - This prevents the aircraft from exceeding a commanded altitude in the FCU
- The audible alert "Adjust V/S" will play and TCAS will avoid conflicts by maintaining a safe vertical speed when attempting to level-off at a targeted altitude
- To ensure a safe speed during any maneuvers A/THR will engage SPEED/MACH

### Corrective

This behavior starts with the vertical speed in the <span style=color:red>red zone</span> of the VSI. As the behavior denotes this RA will require active corrective measure either automatically via the autopilot or manually from the flight crew to fly out of the red zone towards the edge of the green / red zone on the VSI. It is usually coupled with audible alerts such as "Climb, Descend".

The following conditions will apply:

- TCAS will engage and modify vertical guidance to avoid conflict targeting the <span style=color:green>green zone</span>.
- Targets a V/S of 200ft/min inside the green band on the VSI
- Longitudinal modes previously armed will automatically be disarmed except ALT^*^
    - This prevents the aircraft from exceeding a commanded altitude / prevent excursions

>     - A V/S of 0 ft/min is always within the safe zone for a corrective RA which allows for TCAS to capture a targeted flight level if capture conditions are met

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this sentence. How can 0 ft/min be always in the safe zone?

Reviewer: Discussed in DM's will update copy + add a small graphic to make more clear.

|           Monitor Vertical Speed           | Warning is played in the case of preventative RA. Ensure aircraft is not within the red zone on the VSI. |
|     Maintain Vertical Speed, Maintain      | Maintain vertical speed in the green zone of the VSI.                                                    |
| Maintain Vertical Speed, Crossing Maintain | *See above*. Additionally indicates you are crossing the altitude of the intruder.                       |
|             Clear of Conflict              | Return to assigned ATC clearance. Separation is adequate and threat has passed.                          |

---

## External Resources

Airbus' Safety First publication has great resources further explaining their systems in-depth with supporting graphics and statistics. We've provided a link below to a great article detailing TCAS Alert Prevention (TCAP) and the AP/FD TCAS function.

[Safe Handing of TCAS Alerts](https://safetyfirst.airbus.com/safe-handling-of-tcas-alerts/){.md-button primary target=new}

---

## Compatibilities and Known Issues

### Compatible Networks

Our implementation of TCAS supports the following networks:

> - Vatsim

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- VATSIM
```
